
Man pages

   Not all man-pages are in Alpine, but this will get you most of the way
   there:

    apk add man man-pages mdocml-apropos less less-doc
    export PAGER=less

   The above only provides core man pages. Other packages typically don't
   include their own man pages (nor other documentation). Rather, they
   provide an associated package that carries such stuff. For example:

    $ apk add curl
    $ man curl
    man: No entry for curl in the manual.
    $ apropos curl | wc -l
    0    After adding curl, there are no man pages
    $ apk add curl-doc
    (1/1) Installing curl-doc (7.52.1-r2)
    Executing mdocml-apropos-1.13.3-r6.trigger
    OK: 60 MiB in 31 packages
    $ apropos curl | wc -l
    366  Now, with curl-doc installed, there's a boatload of pages!

   NOTE: Not all packages separate out their documentation, but it is the
   Alpine Way (e.g. small footprint). Some packages don't provide any
   installable documentation at all, neither within themselves nor an
   associated doc packages. Further, appending "-doc" is merely a convention.
   In fact, the core man documentations are in man-pages (as in the apk add
   ... command, above). To find the right documentation package, try
   something like:

    $ apk search gcc | grep ^gcc
    gcc-objc-5.3.0-r0
    gcc-gnat-5.3.0-r0
    gcc-5.3.0-r0
    gcc-java-5.3.0-r0
    gcc-doc-5.3.0-r0    Here it is!

   FINALLY: If you're wondering why I've added less (and less-doc), it's
   because man doesn't work correctly with more (the default pager). Don't
   fret too much about bloating up Alpine, though - adding man pages has a
   bigger footprint than less ("less is more than man"???)

Operational hints

    Shell @ commandline

   Alpine comes with busybox by default, busybox is and endpoint for numerous
   symlinks for various utilities. Though busybox is not that bad the
   commands are impaired in functionality.

     * funny characters at the console

   Edit the file at /etc/rc.conf and change line 92 to:

  unicode="YES"

     * Bash

   It is easy enough to have bash installed but this does not mean the
   symlinks to busybox are gone

   install bash like

   apk add bash bash-doc bash-completion

     * shell utils ( things like grep, awk, ls are all busybox symlinks )

   apk add util-linux pciutils usbutils coreutils binutils findutils grep

    Disk Management

   Disk management is soo much easier with udisks or udisks2

   Installation

   apk add udisks2 udisks2-doc

   See the mounted disks

   udisksctl status

Compiling : a few notes and a reminder

   Compiling in Alpine may be more challenging because it uses [15]musl-libc
   instead of glibc. Please review [16]'The functional differences with
   glibc' if you think of porting packages or just for the sake of knowing,
   of course.

   Alpine offers the regular compiler stuff like gcc and cmake ... possible
   others

    (unvalidated) apk packages to install so one can start building software

   apk add build-base gcc abuild binutils binutils-doc gcc-doc

    a complete install for cmake looks like

   apk add cmake cmake-doc extra-cmake-modules extra-cmake-modules-doc

    ccache is also available

   apk add ccache ccache-doc

More compiling notes:

  use CC=cc to compile st (http://git.suckless.org/st)
